---
layout: post
title: "Purpose" 
date:   2024-10-11 15:16:56 -0400
categories: thoughts
---
I think the kind of perfectly abstract system that I'm looking for, where everything flows effortlessly from emergent behavior and generates infinite beauty and complexity, already exists and it's just the universe. So what the fuck am I actually trying to accomplish?

On one level I understand that it simply does not matter in the end. On another level, I'm still desperately searching for the perfect research project that will allow me to understand the universe or complexity or consciousness on a deeper level, and one that will allow me to create things that could not have existed - or that we couldn't have even imagined - before. Maybe it still comes from a misunderstood sense of ego, trying to make something that's bigger and better than what anyone has done before. My attitude when reading papers often leads me to think things like "this is pointless and I could do better," but maybe the real answer is that "this is pointless and futile and so is anything me or anyone else could possibly accomplish." So where does that leave me?

I enjoy the act of creation. I enjoy when I do things and try new things that lead to unexpected results. When I follow a recipe and things turn out right, I usually just think of how I could've done things better or how can I change it for next time or hate myself for ways that I messed things up. When I create something unknown, when I let the process ride and develop naturally, I often end up with something that I couldn't have imagined before creating it, and it feels good. It feels right to allow things to emerge from myself and from collaboration with others and from the properties of whatever system I'm trying to study. If there's no purpose, then I should simply create without purpose.
