---
layout: post
title:  "What's in a project?"
date:   2024-10-07 21:16:56 -0400
categories: thoughts
---

My hard drives are littered with the corpses of innumerable project lists. Ideas of all shapes and sizes have been left to crumble and rust, while a lucky few rose to the level of incomplete implementations before being inevitably abandoned as 'in progress' or 'incomplete'. Meanwhile, I constantly yearn to create and build new things, and create new lists or project proposals that are hyped up and subsequently brushed aside in my brain. Why do so many of my ideas, good and bad, lie untouched? Why are so few of my projects complete? Why can't I spend my time working on things I purport to care about instead of rotting in a haze of dissociative consumption?
To start with, I'll examine the rare breed of projects I'd call completed. A few of these include:

- Incremental changes in cellular automata
- Mini wanderbot
- Basement shelf
- Jukebox
- Tracker


These projects are all quite small in scale and extremely tractable. The notable exception is my CA project, which was done in collaboration with my mentor Giulio and guided by Wolfram. I was passionate and interested in the project and I had a moderate, contiguous amount of time to work on it while surrounded by peers and mentors who were equally or more passionate about science.  The other projects were done based on a small list of concrete goals, and called complete when I reached some level of basic function that fit the original conception I had for the project.

The direction this points me in is that for me to be likely to complete a project, it either has to be small and well-defined, or be embedded within a larger community of support. These are both things that can be explicitly targeted while creating projects and within my daily life. When choosing a project, a general vision is not enough for me to execute anything. A detailed proposal with a clear end point makes me orders of magnitude more likely to at least attempt to work on the project, and make some level of tangible progress. Embedding myself in some sort of community for makers, where I can share my progress and creations while being influenced by the spirit of creativity, would probably be transformative in my creative process. This is more difficult to do, but I can find online maker forums for inspiration and slowly begin engaging in discussions. I'm sure I can find local communities which engage in creative activities and overcome my imposter syndrome to engage with them and one day consider myself part of the maker community.
